All right, everybody, welcome back, so we're going to do is start coding up the static templates
of our bootstrap to WordPress theme.
So real simple HTML access, maybe a little bit of JavaScript, but mostly just keep it real simple.
Put in some plug ins there, like bootstrap.
You know, jQuery.
You know the deal.
So let's kind of create a new folder here on our desktop.
Call it be two W two for bootstrapped WordPress to get it right or whatever the heck you want.
You could just be like my site or another thing or whatever, right?
So I'm just going to go B to you two.
And let's just call this student just for my sake.
I'm calling it that, and we're going to open that up in your favorite code editor of Choice.
Whatever you choose, I'm cool with visual, whatever this or that.
Hack it, hack wiki.
I don't know whatever you use.
I use Adam these days.
Atom Atom Dot, I oh, very cool.
They call it the hackable text editor.
So if you want to really try and break your code editor in waste a lot of time, you're not.
You're totally welcome to.
I don't.
I just use it as a code editor because it's it's good.
OK, so let's open a new folder or new project in here at a project folder, and we're going to choose
on the desktop here.
UW to student.
That's the one I chose.
Whatever you call it, whatever is, whatever you want to do, you can just do whatever you want.
And I'm also going to put the final here as well so that I have a reference to see, you know, what
we're going to make.
All right.
So under your version, your student version here, let's create a new file and an Adam.
I guess all you have to do is press a cool and then just type in indexed on each HTML.
Here we go.
We've got our index file.
Now what?
We're going to do something a little different here on the site itself.
We're not actually going to like code up the index file.
So if I go to like bootstrap to WordPress.com, like this is the home page, but we're not actually
going to code this up because we're going to build this in elementary, but we're essentially going
to do is build the theme.
So it doesn't have to be the literal website.
So when you design and build sites for clients or yourself, you don't have to build the literal websites.
You just need to make sure all the elements, all the styles on the layouts are available so that you
can use them in your site as you're as you're, you know, dragging and dropping with Alimentare and
things like that.
So we're not actually going to code this up.
We're actually just going to create an index file and we're actually just going to code.
Let's see what we got here.
The index is just going to be the like the home, the blog list, I believe.
Yeah.
So the index is just going to literally be this and this will be the, you know, the blog, the blog
index page.
But we won't have this be the home page on the actual site.
So we're just going to start there and just kind of code this up.
So let's get in there.
Let's head over to our code editor.
I got Adam going and we're going to do the usual stuff here.
Now I'm obviously I'm going to provide all these downloads so that you can just have everything available
to download so that you don't have to, you know, code out every single line if you don't want to.
But you're obviously more than welcome to follow along code along because that's that's always fun.
It's always fun learning it that way.
So let's get started by writing out our doc type in Adam, just type HTML and and tab, and then it
will just kind of right this shell out for you.
And that's totally fine.
And we're going to just start might as well give it a title.
Let's call it bootstrap to WordPress 2.0, whatever you want for the title.
And then let's get started.
I'm just going to write the what goes into the head tag here and feel free to just pause and write up
what I wrote.
I don't need to speak every single line.
So here we go.
And we added this viewport meta tag here.
Just for those of you who don't know that so that we can make this thing responsive and the viewport
will scale to the size of the device width.
That's what this says.
You don't have to know exactly what it means to know that it works.
Now this one, the link rel style sheets we're going to, we're going to actually create a folder shortly
called assets and then CC and then put bootstrap in there.
That's how we're going to put that.
We'll put that there in a moment.
We're also going to put flat icons because we're going to use those in the design.
So we're going to download that, throw it in our assets folder under Font folder.
And then we've got our usual style dot CSC, which is just going to sit in the in the just kind of the
root folder here.
All right.
So we got that another thing we're going to do is we're going to add some Google Fonts now.
The Google font that I'm going to use is the entire font to show you how to download that in just a
sec here.
But let's first add a new folder.
So in Adam, Shift A is a quick way of creating a new folder, and we're going to call that assets.
And then in that, we're going to create another folder called CSC.
And then in the assets folder, we're also going to create another folder called font.
Hey, so inner assets Holder was UFC assassin font great.
So in that what we're going to do is we're going to add bootstrap, we're going to add Vlad Icon also
in our root folder.
Let's create a new file that's just a in atom for a new file.
And we're just going to call it style that CSC and that's where our styles are going to sit.
So let's see, Styles loses this cool.
So now let's go ahead and throw our entire font family in there.
So a couple of ways you could do it.
You can go to our Sam asked me, so readers must stop me and you can you can download it this way or
Google Fonts pretty standard and just look for inter type and enter.
Here it is.
You can download it here to your machine, or we can use it as a web font.
We're just going to use which ones are my use in here.
We've got four or five six seven eight hundred.
OK, so we want four five six seven eight hundred.
Those font weights shows that everyone you want.
I don't care.
It's up to you.
This is your choice.
And I just I, my code told me to do this.
So that's what it is.
I'm going to put in there, and all you need to do is just copy this down over here.
You see that copy that you can use import in your styles if you want, like import it in your in your
HTML or you can use link in your HTML.
And then this is the case you use to specify the font family.
So I'm just going to do this.
Copy that?
Go to our code editor editor and paste it.
Look at that.
Clean it up.
That's looking very nice and perfect.
So there we go.
We've got our head kind of sorted out there.
Got our head straight.
OK, now because I said, we're going to be coding up the blog.
Remember that we're going to we're going to use this index as the blog index.
And then later on, we'll actually build our home page in elementary.
One other thing that we should make sure that we do is get bootstrap and flat icon as well.
So that'll be under our assets.
We're going to do just the old fashioned way.
No fancy ways and was a lot of people who like to use terminal and use like a bunch of different things
and blah blah blah.
This is the way that just the everyday kind of lay coder layperson coder lay coder should do it.
Just Google Bootstrap and.
Just download it, it's so easy.
It's just as simple as that.
And what we're going to do is just pick, pick your poison.
How do you want to do it?
You can do it via a CD, and I like CD ends.
But then, you know, people like, you know, you can also put it right into your project.
So what we can do is we can download the source files.
You can download the compile jazz and see us as it's up to you.
What I'm going to do is actually just download the compiled CSC.
And yes.
So here it is here.
So SJS, we don't really need all of this.
Like, I'm just going to grab the bootstrap minidress and the bootstrap.
Let's see.
Yeah, I mean, I think that's I'm I'm cool with that bootstrap men ss and if we need anything, if
something breaks, we can always just throw it all in there.
So we're going to grab bootstrap mendacious.
Yes, you could drag it into your assets folder and also just go like this assets.
We got access.
So which I'm in?
Throw it in the c ss.
There it is.
And let's also grab the we're going to need the bootstrap J.S..
So that was another thing that we need to make sure that we have.
I don't think I added it to the site yet.
Usually, yeah, this is the problem, OK, we need to add our scripts as well.
So before the closing body tag, that's where you put your scripts because you want your scripts to
load last.
Because sometimes scripts can take a while and it can make your website take a little bit longer to
appear.
And that's a bad user experience.
So insider scripts?
It's going to copy all three of them.
Paste them in.
So just script assets, just bootstrap men as it's just jQuery.
And then main script is the one that we're going to use if we need to code any of our own JavaScript
or jQuery.
So we're going to add a new folder under assets, and that's going to be Jass.
There it is.
And so let's start by dragging our bootstrap.
J.S..
Into I think it's bootstraps as much, I mean as a bootstrap.
Men.
Do I not have much time in here?
Oh, you probably saw before I saw this.
So this is a jazz file, not a zoo, I'll drag that into your jazz folder and then go to your CC bootstrap
men CC.
And throw that into your CSC folder.
Now, Bootstrap has all these other things like grid and.
And a whole bunch of things here, we may need those, we may not.
We're just going to leave that for now and we'll try it as we go.
If something's not working, we'll fix it as we go, because that's that's my style.
All right.
What do we need now?
Any jury at this time?
Three point six point zero is what the code says.
Let's see what Jan has in store for us.
Go to Jake recom you go download.
And then just choose the way you want to do it, you can do ampm, jaan Bauer, blah blah blah blah
blah.
I like just straight up downloading it or using a CD.
And where are we at code Takeaway.com so you can download it?
Or you can just use the CNS as a CD ends if you're to click it like slim minified.
You can do that.
Let's see where we can download it.
All right here.
So download the compressed production jQuery 3.6.
Meanwhile, I'm fine with that.
So just real small file.
Copy that.
It looks crazy.
Just copy it.
So what we're going to do is create a new file under J.S. and that's going to be jQuery Dash three point
six point O Dot Minaj's bleeding call whatever you want, but that's the title of it in the script tag
there.
Paste it in Save.
OK.
I like to test to see if jQuery is working by just like really quick going into your wherever you want
in your email file here.
We're going to add a script tag.
I just like you can do console, but I just like doing alert.
Hello.
There you go, first thing, Lou, take that out because you don't want that.
Now, you know, a more refined developer would say console, not log and then do that.
And then what you could do is head over to your page again, refresh and then inspect.
Go to console and then you can see, Hey Lou, right there.
So cool.
Let's see.
What issues do we have here?
We don't have flat icons.
Of course we need to get that.
We don't have the main script.
Robin, a few issues here with OK.
My job, blah blah blah blah blah.
OK, so let's go back here.
Get rid of the script.
Let's just kind of keep chugging along here, and then we'll deal with issues as we go.
So one of the things I want to do is interject create a new file called main dash scripts such as,
you can call it, whatever I usually call it script main, not script is fine.
You can call it like, I doesn't matter.
It really doesn't matter.
But, you know, keep it so that it makes sense.
If you're sharing your code with somebody else, you have a developer working with you.
You know, then don't call this like, you know, my fuzzy pets or something like that.
I might be a little weird.
Main script is fine.
Here it is.
We're not going to do anything right now with that.
OK, so here we go.
We've got this.
There's nothing in there so far.
One more thing we needed to do just to get her project ready.
Let's call this lesson the get our project ready.
Lesson and then we'll carry on in another video here.
So we're almost done getting our project ready.
We need under font.
We need those flat icons.
So let's do that.
All right.
So icon, flight icon, dot com slash icon font.
That's what we want.
So what you can kind of do is I think you can like, create your own collection to to to to choose all
of what you want and then download the icon font.
A copy to your CSO keeps it kind of lightweight so you don't have all the fonts.
I think that's kind of the idea here.
So a couple of ways we can go about doing this is we can choose your whole collection here if you want
to do that or if we want to keep it really simple because I already have it in my folder, my final
folder in the final folder under assets.
CSC, sorry assets.
Fonts.
You can just grab this like everything in the fine folder and just drop it into yours because.
We already have a collection of funds that we're using here.
And then this is, you know, this is what you need to put in here, so we're using these in icon fonts.
So instead of going hunting around on the video and finding these, I already have them done so just
grab them in the final folder under font.
Grab everything in here and make a copy of it in your student here.
Assets under font to make a copy of all this, I'm just going to copy this over into here.
Like that, and then I think we should be good here, so we got our flat icon Nazi SS and we're good
to go.
So right now, that is kind of our project.
We set up our project.
Quick, quick, quick review.
We've got our B to W two student folder.
You can download the final one if you wish.
And we've got our assets folder and index file, a style that suggests on our index file, we got the
basic skeleton here.
We got some meditating, some links to bootstrap flat icon and Google Fonts for the Enter Font family.
And then we've got our bootstrap.
J.S. Jay Cary and a main script folder, I mean, script file rather for a jQuery JavaScript assets
folder right here CSC, Font and Jass.
Here's the CSC files and the font and the JSE, never mind.
If you see this does underscore store files just ahead and file every folder has hidden files on your
machine.
I just happen to have them showing for some reason, but never mind that you don't need to add that.
That's it for this session of the project.
In the next one, we're going to keep going with this index file Tata.